At Dana Perriers, we're joined by Alex
Kopelman, the co-founder and CEO of Long
Lake Management. Long Lake recently
announced their intent to acquire
American Express Global Business Travel
for $6.3 billion in what I believe is
the world's first AI take private. They
have previously bought around 30
companies and they transform and
optimize them with AI. So, we're very
excited to have them on board today.
Alex, thanks so much for joining us at
Dana Perriers.
>> Pleasure to be here. Thank you for
having me.
>> Um, you just announced what I believe,
and I could be wrong on this, but I
think it may be, um, the world's first
ever AI take private. Where you've
agreed to acquire Amex Express Global
Business Travel, the world's largest
corporate travel platform for $6.3
billion, which is pretty amazing.
And before that, you've already done 30
acquisitions under this premise that you
can buy businesses and transform them
with AI, what some people are referring
to as AI-driven roll-ups.
Or AI-driven, um, uh, buyouts. And so, I
it's very exciting to have you here and
learn more about your business. You
mentioned you have this Nexus platform,
which helps your employees serve their
customers better and automates a lot of
their work. Could you give examples of
some of the things that that automates
or how it helps them in the context of
HOA, and I know you're now in four other
verticals, or three other verticals, and
so what you do kind of crosses across
the different businesses you're involved
with.
>> Yeah, that's right. So, we've taken an
approach since beginning of investing
very heavily in our horizontal AI
platform, which we call Nexus. Um, I'd
say roughly 80% of the infrastructure is
shared across the verticals, and then
there's a lot of work to take it and
deploy it into those end markets. And
the deployment involves mapping
workflows, understanding data sources,
cleaning up data sources, integrating
with them to make them easier for the
models to access. And sort of our Nexus
platform sits in between the models on
one side, we're model agnostic, and the
data sources, the skills, the workflows
of the business. And so, that takes a
lot of customization and significant
applied AI engineering capabilities,
which we've built at Long Lake. So, once
we can take that platform, we buy a
company now or partner with a company
now very quickly. You know, in the
beginning, it took us over a year with
our first acquisitions to actually, you
know, find the the real potential of AI
and see it in the in the business
outcomes. But now, within days of
partnering with a company, we can deploy
this very quickly and see immediate
impact.
>> buy a company and then within a couple
weeks, you have instant margin lift
because the employees of that new
acquisition just go on a platform you've
already built for similar businesses.
>> Yeah, what we what we see is instant
time savings. And then, the question is
how do we grow to give our team members?
So, we actually invest very heavily in
growth. We're actually not really, you
know, we're not focused on cost saving.
We're actually focused on driving growth
and customer experience. That's our
that's our big and what we've seen it's
a much more powerful model because it's
our view of AI is it's incredibly
positive sum. I know this is a little
bit of a narrative violation, but we
actually think AI makes people more
productive and we have more productive
people, you want more of them.
>> Mhm.
>> And when your customers are happier, you
grow faster. You actually create jobs
and everybody wins. And so, we're seeing
this in our companies. We're fastest
growing company in the HOA industry now.
We are growing organically. We when we
invested in the businesses, they're
typically growing 0 to 5% a year in
terms of volume. We're now growing 20
plus percent a year. And that's because
we've made our team members we've given
them extra capacity to go and serve more
customers. We actually have
better uh more attractive customer
acquisition economics um cuz we can
serve those customers at incrementally
lower cost with better products and
services. So, we've been able to take
sort of the the software style playbook
of go-to-market and apply it into these
sleepy industries and and I think it's a
win-win-win.
>> Mhm. It must be hard for your employees
to go and work anywhere else in the
industry then because if they're
dramatically more productive, they're
doing less busy work. Have you found
that you've decreased employee churn or
about other things like that?
>> That's right. We've seen very very high
retention of our team members across all
of our acquisitions. Um
and actually this is the vision. This is
the vision LongLake. We We want to
basically be the best place to work in
every industry that we operate so we can
get give the best people the best tools
with the best customers and that
flywheel becomes self-perpetuating
because if you now leave LongLake or you
leave our one of our partner companies
to go to a competitor, you have to start
doing all this mundane work again that
you 25% of your day, 30% of your day,
you have to go do that again. And the
thought of It's like It's like giving up
email or something. You know, you're not
going to It's just so actually we've
been started to become a real talent
magnet in these industries in our
companies. And by the way, we can pay
people the most because they're the most
productive, they're actually making more
money and we're we're delighted about
that. So,
we can pay you the most, give you the
best tools, and we're growing the
fastest.
Um
you know, that's part of our vision is
it's just it's it's really making things
better for team members and customers.
And by the way, the other important
thing is you give your team members
superpowers with AI,
the customers are much, much happier.
So, we're seeing customer retention
going up. We're seeing response times
much faster, errors going down in sort
of things like board reporting,
budgeting, email, you know, and uh
that's driving up customer retention.
>> Mhm. That's so cool. Why Why do this via
acquisition versus just offering
software to people? In other words, the
traditional Silicon Valley playbook
would be
you know, you find that niche way
industry, you realize that there's a
need in terms of software, you build
software for the industry, and then you
sell it as a vendor, and in this case,
sell it as a sort of AI product or tool.
Um why not do that or why did you decide
to go down the acquisition path?
>> We We think that you can drive better
win-win business outcomes with deeper
alignment. And so, by actually owning
the companies and and owning those
customer relationships directly, we can
drive better better results. Software
companies are wonderful. We partner with
many of them, but when you're just
selling software and you don't actually
then care what happens with the with the
business outcomes,
you just don't see the same business
outcomes.
>> are just viewing your employees as their
customers in some sense then. Is that
correct?
>> That's right. Our our team views our
employees and our team members in the
field as the customer and that feedback
loop internally, that's the other point
is we have a much tighter feedback loop.
So, you know, the old skunkworks thing
of you want the engineers in the factory
to be co-located so you can have more
innovation. That's what we have at
Longview. So, our team members and our
engineers are together in the field all
the time. I think there's of our
engineering team, they're probably in 20
different states right now sitting with
team members across our architecture
business, across our HOA business,
across our HR services or you know,
specialty tax business. And so, there's
sort of um
and there's a deep amount of change
management that's involved. So, this is
a lot of, you know, sitting with the
team members, understanding their pain
points. And so, there's a real like
solutions orientation of how do we take
the pain point we and then we build a a
tool within Nexus to solve it and that
feedback loop is really important. So,
you get to better outcomes this way.
>> That's pretty amazing because I think
one of the biggest issues for actual
adoption of AI is uh change management,
uh changing processes, changing our
organizational design. And I guess if
you own the actual company, then you can
make those changes. If you're just
selling software, you can't really
impact it very much. I think in general,
um in order to do this very well and
I've talked to dozens of people trying
to do different forms of AI roll-ups and
uh things like that, um
is you really need three competencies,
it seems like. It seems like you need
some folks who are great at the the
private equity style motion of
purchasing things. You need somebody
who's great at engineering and building
out the
uh AI uh stack and then you need really
good change management. How do How were
you able to pull those three disciplines
together because it's very rare? And
again, I've seen very very few very few
companies in this area who've done this.
Was it a magic initial founding team?
Was it just how you hired? I'm sort of
curious how you Because you've also
gotten exceptional engineers, which
most, you know, uh folks aren't able to
get in this industry.
>> Yeah, well, thank you for saying that.
Yeah, so because we were purpose-built
from day one to kind of be this
cross-functional company with technology
and DNA, change management, and M&A, we
were able to attract, you know, the
right type of people from network. And
so, I think 100% of our first 20 people
were through network, knew them really
well, and people from, you know, places
like Palantir, Ramp, Robinhood, you
know, some of the top clean, some of the
top
sort of modern AI and data companies.
And so, you know, Rasmus, our our
co-founder and CTO,
he and I were connected through one of
our, you know, early investors and board
members who we've all known each other
for
kind of 15 plus years.
We all started our careers together, and
>> And it's really rare, by the way, I
think for many business people to have
those deep technical networks. Like,
what I've observed is that often these
are separate worlds, and technologists
are very bad at hiring business people
early on at least in their careers, and
vice versa, business people tend to be
awful at hiring engineers. And so, you
end up with these mismatches on the
early teams. So, it's pretty amazing you
were able to pull people out of some of
these great companies.
>> Yeah, well, thank you. I mean, I think
it's a real Well, it's a really exciting
project. I think that's, you know, the
idea of bringing AI into the real world.
There's a lot I mean, the what the labs
are doing is extraordinary, obviously,
and they're enabling all of this and all
the, you know, hundreds of billions of
investment that's going in. Models are
getting Part of our thesis was the
models are going to get better every
day. There's going to be a tremendous
amount in the trillions of investment,
but who's going to take all that and
actually make it work in the real
economy? There felt like a huge huge
gap. And so, a lot of the folks that
came together for our founding team
actually were founders before in
technology. Many of them had their own
startups on the engineering team. They
They They were either the co-founder or
the CEO or CTO of an applied AI company,
but what people realized is it's
actually, for the reasons we talked
about earlier, it's actually really hard
to sell software into these services
industries. It's much better to It's
like, if you can't beat them, join them.
And so, what we We're building sort of a
team of founders,
and we want Long like to be a place
where entrepreneurial applied AI
engineers can come and do some of their
best work.
>> And then you also have pulled I think
some people out of great private equity
firms.
>> Mhm.
>> Um what are some of the places that
those folks have come from?
>> Yeah, our private equity team comes
from, you know, uh our M&A team comes
from top private equity firms like So
Manny, one of our one of our co-founders
and M&A lead came from GTCR. He actually
worked on the most profitable deal in
their history the month before he left
to come to Long Lake. Um
he might get embarrassed for me saying
this, but I think he was named employee
of the month at GTCR the month he he
resigned. Um but, you know, GTCR one of
the top-performing large cap buyout
funds. We have folks from Blackstone,
TPG, HIG.
And mostly the reason they come to Long
Lake is because,
you know, even though these firms
are extraordinary firms at what they do,
they're not uh AI native. And so I think
for those subsegment of those M&A
professionals that really believe in our
thesis, there's there's not many places
that look like Long Lake today. And so
we can provide a unique environment for
them to deploy AI into all these
companies.
>> And I think this led to this really
unique opportunity, which is uh
taking private a 110-year-old business,
which is um American Express Global
Business Travel.
And again, I mean, I I haven't seen
anything of this magnitude happen in the
AI world up until now, which is pretty
impressive. And I think it's a $6.3
billion potential um
uh
take private. How did you all come up
with the idea to do this?
And I know you there's only limited
things you can say since this is a
public company and it's going through
this transition, but you know, whatever
you can share in terms of the thinking
behind it.
>> Well, we've admired this company
for, you know, as long as I, you know, I
think I've been a customer, many of us,
you know, involved in our some of our
investors, you know, that have traveled
a lot in their careers have used this
company as a customer.
>> And by the way, this company I think got
started when the only thing you could
book on it was like railways and boats.
And you know, again, it's been around
for a while. I think this predates air
travel as It's company.
>> Yeah, this is a this is a 111-year-old
company. It was started in 1915 by
American Express as a way for them to
get their travel checks customers out of
Europe during World War I. Um and
actually some parts uh Carlson Wagonlit,
which they acquired late last year, was
founded I think in 1876.
>> Wow.
>> Wagonlit stands for
uh sleeping cars in the train. It's
French.
>> Ah.
>> So, I mean these are these these are
businesses that navigated a century plus
worth of technology transformation. And
so and we think they're going to be it's
going to be an extraordinary franchise
for for another century to come.
Um but the the way we came up with the
thesis is we'd actually been, you know,
we have a prepared mind approach at Long
Lake. We there's we have a whiteboard of
call it 15 20 industries that we think
are very high value for us to focus on
and travel was always one of them and
the reasons are, you know, it's a
mission-critical service, it's high cost
of failure, um most trips are
revenue-generating, and you know, if you
miss, you know, like a podcast with your
favorite, you know, podcaster, for
example.
>> I have an entire travel day.
It'd be tragic.
>> Right.
>> Uh so,
you know, this is a
the customer trust that this franchise
has built over 100 years is really
extraordinary.
And I think and the company actually and
in publicly reported has done a really
great job charting its future with AI
transformation, and we just think we can
double down on that and and drive a lot
of customer excellence.
>> Is there anything I know again you can't
say much because of you know, it's a
transaction in progress for like a uh
public company,
um but is there anything you can tell us
about how you're thinking about where
you want to take this?
>> Yeah, and and I've said this, you know,
publicly in the press release is that
our vision is to really double down on
the company's existing AI transformation
strategy, um and we see it as, you know,
any industry that we operate in, we see
it our Nexus platform as giving our team
members superpowers deliver better
customer outcomes, faster response
times, faster, you know, um disruption
uh resolution, and
imagine basically your travel counselor
with AI superpowers. That's kind of the
future we envision for MXG BT's
customers.
>> I so I know that there's a few different
versions of people who will buy
companies to operate them or improve
them. The traditional private equity
playbook tends to be very short-term,
right? They'll buy a business for a
couple years, they'll put they'll load
it up with debt in many cases, they may
cut costs aggressively or teams
aggressively,
and then flip the business. And I think
you've taken an approach which I would
view more as in the Berkshire Hathaway
mold, which is you want to buy
businesses you can own and hold for a
very long time.
Uh and you kind of want to invest in
these businesses over time.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh where do you want to be in 10 years
or 20 years? Or how do you think about,
you know, where this this all goes?
>> Well, look, I think it's a really big
market opportunity. This is 20-plus
trillion TAM, like I said before, and
uh I think we'd like to be the market
leader in every segment that we're
operating in, and I think there's a lot
of segments to potentially, you know,
add value to. So, part of what inspired
us always about, you know, the Danaher's
of the world is they were able to
compound, they developed a
differentiated operating model. In their
case,
started manufacturing and then life
sciences, but they were always able to
drive better growth, better customer
satisfaction, better employee retention,
and ultimately better productivity. And
that allowed them to, um you know,
continually consolidate all these
industries over a long period of time
with a lot of uh outperformance. And so,
our vision is to sort of follow in the
footsteps of some of those great
companies within the ser- and do it in
within the services sector, and with our
sort of AI platform as our advantage. Um
and and I do think that there's
something about the long-term nature of
what we're doing. You know, it's really
hard. What we're doing is actually
really hard.
>> Mhm.
>> And doing it you can't do this in a
year, you can't do this even in 2 years,
3 years. This is a multi-year
transformation. These are
uh these these are sort of compounding
effects. Where as you as we talked about
earlier, as you sort of give your people
better tools, you get better people. And
then you can pay them more, and then
they can deliver better customer
outcomes, and then you can grow faster.
That's not a one-month, two-month cycle.
That's a two, three, four, five-year
transformation cycle. And then what are
you going to do? You're going to do all
that, you're going to build the best
company in the industry, and then you're
going to sell it? That just doesn't make
sense to me. I I'd want to own that
company forever and compound on that
advantage for decades to come. Uh and
then extrapolate it into ancillary areas
and other service lines. And so, our
vision really is to be a long-term owner
partner to world-class services
companies. And and by the way, if I was
a a founder-owned business who had a
built a great business over 50 years,
you know, I'd love to know that the next
steward of that company is going to be a
long-term investor and a long-term
steward of of of of the employees and
the customers. And so, that's part of
our vision as well. We We've designed
Longlake Part of it is, you know, I grew
up in a family of entrepreneurs and we
had a family business that my
grandfather started, my dad an uncle ran
for for for 75-year-old company that we
recently
exited, actually. Um and uh
when we designed Longlake, I designed it
with that mindset of sort of build the
product you yourself would want to use,
which is I would love to be, you know,
if I was a seller of an asset partnering
with Longlake. And that would That's our
ambition.
>> So, one other thing that I've noticed is
that often it seems like you you win a
lot of the
uh companies that you are bidding on in
a competitive process, or in some cases
you're the only person people want to
sell to. Could you explain why that is
or what how that's shifted over the last
two, three years?
>> Yeah, thank you. Um
we have had a really good success Our
message has really resonated with uh
with business owners and management
teams. I think because I think it is
solving a really important need, which
is having a long-term permanent capital
partner is already a wonderful thing.
But having that partner with deep
applied AI and engineering expertise and
a platform that you you deploy day one
>> Cuz these folks never see anything like
that, right? In terms of the industries
that they're currently in.
>> Yeah, we have to you know, AI is very
very under penetrated. It's probably
around 1% penetrated in terms of real
enterprise AI use cases. And when you
think about sort of the you know,
the overall economy, first of all, 99%
of businesses in America are are small
businesses. They don't have access to
the resources of big companies. But even
big companies, you know, are having a
hard time figuring out, you know, how to
drive maximum impact from AI. So,
we are sort of a we're solving many
needs. And you know, in terms of the you
know, the philosophy I mentioned before
of
we've kind of tried to design you know,
the product you want to use as a if we
were a seller or if we were a management
team to be the optimal partner. And
that's that's how we've designed
Long-Like. And so, we have this
cross-functional team. They become your
partners day one. I mean, you get to
partner with Varun or you get Varun,
Taras, Pratik and you know, Jason and
our extraordinary engineering team will
basically live in your office for the
next 2 years helping you fix all your
problems.
It's a pretty good value prop. And so,
and then we also encourage rollover and
equity alignment from existing
shareholders or management founders. And
so, in our first
four verticals, service lines that we've
gone into, we have significant rollover
participation from the original
founders.
>> gets a piece of the new business in some
sense so that they benefit in the upside
of the change that's coming.
>> That's right. We we're very open to that
and we've been encouraging of that cuz
we like to win together. I mean, this
goes back to super positive sum about
AI. We think we can make everyone happy
here. Customers, team members, you know,
and the business founders and management
who participate alongside us in the
productivity increase. And so, that's
why I think we've been a differentiated
partner.
And I my view is as we prove this out
more and more over time and the capital
markets start to understand kind of our
vision and what we're doing. I'd like to
think our cost of capital will keep
coming down as well, which then further
makes us a better partner to these folks
cuz we can actually pay more than anyone
else because you know, and this is sort
of what Danaher proved in TransDigm and
all these great operators over many
years is that, you know, if you can
establish a currency, you can actually,
you know, not have to lose deals over
price cuz you can operate the deals
better. And then, you know, you you have
a diversified platform that's more
valuable and growing faster with, you
know, better financial metrics.
>> Is it I guess the other thing that
that's related to this is you tend to
grow the businesses you buy.
So, you're not really focused as much on
how do we cut costs as much as possible?
You're often focused on how do we grow
top line? How do we grow revenue? How do
we make our employees more productive in
terms of sales and serving customers?
Can you talk a little bit about that and
how you first thought?
>> Yeah, we're we are for us growth is and
customer experience and growth and
expansion is the top priority. So,
>> And by the way, this is very true for
tech companies, but it's not very true
for many other types of companies, I
think.
>> Well, it's interesting. I'll tell you so
this is kind of a non-obvious thing that
I've observed, which is actually most of
these service companies are
growth-oriented. And most of these
founders built these companies from
their bootstraps over 20, 30, 40 years
by knocking on doors and, you know,
figuring out how to, you know, convince
people to use their service in a certain
market. But it's actually now it's
really painful to grow because in these
industries that are very
labor-intensive, if you grow 20%, you
might need to go hire another 20%
people. And then you got to first you
got to find them, you got to train them,
then you have to manage them. And if
you're already making a lot of money and
you're kind of, you know, you don't you
know, it's it's this And then by the
way, so you do all that work to hire
those people, and then you only keep 20
cents on the dollar of every incremental
uh dollar of revenue that comes in
because, you know, most of it goes to
incremental labor. So, that's like a
very high marginal tax rate essentially
on the growth activity. So, what we've
done with AI is when you make your
existing teams 30, 40% more efficient
and they can handle more customers,
um it changes the whole mindset of the
organization. Now you're growing you
look like a software company now where
you're now growing with high incremental
margins and that allows you to invest
more in growth, be more growth-oriented,
and um
that actually is one of the most one of
the most interesting and exciting things
about sort of this whole AI flowing
through the ecosystem is we're seeing
our partners and you know, you could
call any of our CEOs and some of them
have been running their businesses for
for decades.
I think they'd tell you they're having
the best time of their career now with
us because we're actually growing, you
know, like a software company and we're
seeing our team members are getting paid
more and are happier and our customers
are happier. So, it's been a lot of fun.
>> Thanks so much for joining us on No
Priors.
>> My pleasure to be here. It was a lot of
fun. Thanks for having me.
>> Great first interview.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
>> Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.